README.md, before:

# TCU Status Presence Maker

> ⚠️ **Important:** This program does **not** interact with the game directly. It reads your screen to determine your location.  
> **The script requires the original HUD to function and will not work otherwise.**

> ⚠️ **Note:** **ONLY THE CURRENT LANGUAGES ARE SUPPORTED, SELECTING ANY OTHER LANGUAGE WON'T DO ANYTHING. I WILL ADD MORE SUPPORTED LNAGUAGES OVERTIME**:  
> En & PL

> Borderless window recommended. A User guide is provided for more information under `main`

> For fullscreen, **ENSURE** native resolution is selected. Set the ocr region in borderless window, and set back to fullscreen.
> OCR **WILL** break if the resolution is set to something that your monitor doesn't support - i.e. Super Resolution

---

## Overview
**TCU Status Presence Maker** displays your current in-game map location from **The Crew Unlimited** as a **Discord Rich Presence** status, updating automatically as you move around the map.

---

# How Updates Work

The program reads your in-game location from the screen and updates your Discord status. Here's how it works:

### 1. **OCR (Optical Character Recognition):**  
   - The bot takes a small screenshot of your map’s HUD text and converts it to characters.

### 2. **Matching Locations:**  
   - First tries an **exact match** against known sub-area names.  
   - If that fails, tries a **partial match** (for small OCR misreads).  
   - If still no match, uses **fuzzy matching**, but only if the first letter matches and the text is very similar.  
   - This ensures minor OCR errors don’t trigger completely wrong updates.

### 3. **Transition Rules:**  
   - Certain area transitions have **special rules** (such as moving to a city from it's surrounding region; entering an area that appears in multiple locations). The bot manages these automatically.

### 4. **Discord Updates:**  
   - The bot only updates Discord when the confirmed location changes.  
   - Verbose logging shows every OCR read for debugging, but normal updates are minimized to avoid unnecessary Discord changes.  
   - Updates happen roughly every few seconds (controlled by `update_interval` in `config.json`). Typically, your Discord status reflects a location change within 2–4.5 seconds.

### 5. **Misreads & Safety:**  
   - Some unusual OCR outputs might still appear temporarily, but the bot is designed to minimize false updates.  
   - If you notice its not reading/updating or is having persistent misreads, you can **redefine the OCR region** using **`5`**.

---

## How To Run This Program

### Step 1: Configure Your Discord Bot
Before running the program, you need to create your **own Discord application** and bot:

1. Go to the [Discord Developer Portal](https://discord.com/developers/applications) and create a new application.  
2. Add a bot to the application and copy its **Client ID**.  
3. Open `config.json` in the program folder and enter your Discord **Client ID** under `DISCORD_CLIENT_ID`.  
4. To use the default images and area rich presence, upload the images from the `Images/` folder to your Discord application under **Rich Presence → Art Assets**. The provided names are already formatted to match `config.json`, so the bot will use them automatically.

### Step 2: If you prefer to use your own images for the `large_image`, you have two options:

1. For a **static image**, upload it under any name and copy that name into `large_image` in `config.json`.  
2. For a **dynamic large area image**, upload it with the same name as in the folder. For example, upload `midwest` for the Midwest region (this will persist regardless of language).

---

### Option 1: Run the Executable
Simply launch **TCUStatus.exe**. No additional dependencies are required.

### Option 2: Run the Python Source File

### Prerequisite:
TcuStatus requires python to run, if it's not installed go to [Python.Org](https://www.python.org/) and install python

### Instructions:
If you prefer to run the script directly (`TcuStatus.py`), you will need to install the following Python dependencies:

```bash
pip install pyautogui pygetwindow pyrect pytesseract pillow keyboard pypresence rapidfuzz
```

Then run:

```bash
python TcuStatus.py
```

### Option 3: Compiling From Source
To compile the `.exe` from source you need the following commands:
```bash
pip install pyinstaller
```

to test it installed correctly, run the following command:
```bash
pyinstaller --version
```

then run this command to compile from the source:
```bash
pyinstaller TcuStatus.spec
```


---


### Hotkeys
Some settings can also be toggled in real-time using Number-keys (press the key while the terminal is focused):

- **1** – Toggle "Time Spent in Current Area" (`time_in_area`).  
- **2** – Toggle dynamic large images (`dynamic_large_image`).  
- **3** – Toggle verbose logging (`verbose_logging`).  
- **4** – Reload language files for OCR (debug).  
- **5** – Redefine the OCR region dynamically.  
- **6** – Save a screenshot of the current OCR region.  
- **7** – Exit the bot.

---

## Configuration

The program uses a `config.json` file to control settings. You can adjust the following options:

### Discord Bot
- **DISCORD_CLIENT_ID** – Your Discord application’s **Client ID** (required).  
- **large_image** – Default large image key for Discord Rich Presence.  
- **large_text** – Tooltip text for the large image.  
- **small_image** – Small image key for Discord Rich Presence.  
- **small_text** – Tooltip text for the small image.  
- **button1_label / button1_url** – Label and URL for the first Rich Presence button.  
- **button2_label / button2_url** – Label and URL for the second button.

### OCR / Map Detection
- **update_interval** – How often the OCR reads the map, in seconds.  
- **ocr_scale** – Scaling factor for OCR accuracy (higher = more precise).  
- **current_language** – ISO language code for OCR (e.g., `EN`, `PL`).  
- **ocr_region** – `[x, y, width, height]` of the screen region the OCR reads.  
- **smart_fallback** – Enables fallback detection when the OCR result is ambiguous.  
- **time_in_area** – If `true`, the bot tracks how long you remain in each area.  
- **dynamic_large_image** – If `true`, changes the large image based on the current main area.  
- **verbose_logging** – Enables detailed console logging for debugging.

---

## Supported Languages
- EN - English  
- FI - Finnish  
- FR - French  
- DE - German  
- JP - Japanese  
- NO - Norwegian  
- IT - Italian  
- PL - Polish  
- ES - Spanish  
- SV - Swedish  
- CS - Czech  
- PT - Portuguese  
- DA - Danish  
- NL - Dutch  
- RU - Russian

---

## Notes
- Again focus the terminal before using hotkeys.  
- OCR relies on your screen resolution and map location; use **5** to redefine the OCR if needed.
- When screenshotting an OCR region, make sure to **ONLY** include the sub region.
- Only necessary tessdata files for selected languages are included to reduce size. 
- You can also compile your own version of the bot using a custom Tesseract-OCR folder if desired.
- Make sure config.json and Language/ folder are in the same directory as the executable
- If running from source, also make sure the `Tesseract-OCR` folder is in the same directory

---

## License

This project bundles **Tesseract OCR**, which is licensed under **Apache License 2.0**.  
The original `LICENSE` file for Tesseract is included in the `Tesseract-OCR/doc/` folder.

The remainder of this project is also licensed under **Apache License 2.0**

---

## Community Links

- [Join the TCU Discord Server!](https://discord.gg/tcu)  
- [Check the official TCU YouTube Channel!](https://youtube.com/@whammy4)

Commit message:

Updated the needing of focusing on the terminal, that is no longer required

README.md, after:

# TCU Status Presence Maker

> ⚠️ **Important:** This program does **not** interact with the game directly. It reads your screen to determine your location.  
> **The script requires the original HUD to function and will not work otherwise.**

> ⚠️ **Note:** **ONLY THE CURRENT LANGUAGES ARE SUPPORTED, SELECTING ANY OTHER LANGUAGE WON'T DO ANYTHING. I WILL ADD MORE SUPPORTED LNAGUAGES OVERTIME**:  
> En & PL

> Borderless window recommended. A User guide is provided for more information under `main`

> For fullscreen, **ENSURE** native resolution is selected. Set the ocr region in borderless window, and set back to fullscreen.
> OCR **WILL** break if the resolution is set to something that your monitor doesn't support - i.e. Super Resolution

---

## Overview
**TCU Status Presence Maker** displays your current in-game map location from **The Crew Unlimited** as a **Discord Rich Presence** status, updating automatically as you move around the map.

---

# How Updates Work

The program reads your in-game location from the screen and updates your Discord status. Here's how it works:

### 1. **OCR (Optical Character Recognition):**  
   - The bot takes a small screenshot of your map’s HUD text and converts it to characters.

### 2. **Matching Locations:**  
   - First tries an **exact match** against known sub-area names.  
   - If that fails, tries a **partial match** (for small OCR misreads).  
   - If still no match, uses **fuzzy matching**, but only if the first letter matches and the text is very similar.  
   - This ensures minor OCR errors don’t trigger completely wrong updates.

### 3. **Transition Rules:**  
   - Certain area transitions have **special rules** (such as moving to a city from it's surrounding region; entering an area that appears in multiple locations). The bot manages these automatically.

### 4. **Discord Updates:**  
   - The bot only updates Discord when the confirmed location changes.  
   - Verbose logging shows every OCR read for debugging, but normal updates are minimized to avoid unnecessary Discord changes.  
   - Updates happen roughly every few seconds (controlled by `update_interval` in `config.json`). Typically, your Discord status reflects a location change within 2–4.5 seconds.

### 5. **Misreads & Safety:**  
   - Some unusual OCR outputs might still appear temporarily, but the bot is designed to minimize false updates.  
   - If you notice its not reading/updating or is having persistent misreads, you can **redefine the OCR region** using **`5`**.

---

## How To Run This Program

### Step 1: Configure Your Discord Bot
Before running the program, you need to create your **own Discord application** and bot:

1. Go to the [Discord Developer Portal](https://discord.com/developers/applications) and create a new application.  
2. Add a bot to the application and copy its **Client ID**.  
3. Open `config.json` in the program folder and enter your Discord **Client ID** under `DISCORD_CLIENT_ID`.  
4. To use the default images and area rich presence, upload the images from the `Images/` folder to your Discord application under **Rich Presence → Art Assets**. The provided names are already formatted to match `config.json`, so the bot will use them automatically.

### Step 2: If you prefer to use your own images for the `large_image`, you have two options:

1. For a **static image**, upload it under any name and copy that name into `large_image` in `config.json`.  
2. For a **dynamic large area image**, upload it with the same name as in the folder. For example, upload `midwest` for the Midwest region (this will persist regardless of language).

---

### Option 1: Run the Executable
Simply launch **TCUStatus.exe**. No additional dependencies are required.

### Option 2: Run the Python Source File

### Prerequisite:
TcuStatus requires python to run, if it's not installed go to [Python.Org](https://www.python.org/) and install python

### Instructions:
If you prefer to run the script directly (`TcuStatus.py`), you will need to install the following Python dependencies:

```bash
pip install pyautogui pygetwindow pyrect pytesseract pillow keyboard pypresence rapidfuzz
```

Then run:

```bash
python TcuStatus.py
```

### Option 3: Compiling From Source
To compile the `.exe` from source you need the following commands:
```bash
pip install pyinstaller
```

to test it installed correctly, run the following command:
```bash
pyinstaller --version
```

then run this command to compile from the source:
```bash
pyinstaller TcuStatus.spec
```


---


### Hotkeys
Some settings can also be toggled in real-time using Number-keys (pressing the key while the terminal is focused is recomended):

- **1** – Toggle "Time Spent in Current Area" (`time_in_area`).  
- **2** – Toggle dynamic large images (`dynamic_large_image`).  
- **3** – Toggle verbose logging (`verbose_logging`).  
- **4** – Reload language files for OCR (debug).  
- **5** – Redefine the OCR region dynamically.  
- **6** – Save a screenshot of the current OCR region.  
- **7** – Exit the bot.

---

## Configuration

The program uses a `config.json` file to control settings. You can adjust the following options:

### Discord Bot
- **DISCORD_CLIENT_ID** – Your Discord application’s **Client ID** (required).  
- **large_image** – Default large image key for Discord Rich Presence.  
- **large_text** – Tooltip text for the large image.  
- **small_image** – Small image key for Discord Rich Presence.  
- **small_text** – Tooltip text for the small image.  
- **button1_label / button1_url** – Label and URL for the first Rich Presence button.  
- **button2_label / button2_url** – Label and URL for the second button.

### OCR / Map Detection
- **update_interval** – How often the OCR reads the map, in seconds.  
- **ocr_scale** – Scaling factor for OCR accuracy (higher = more precise).  
- **current_language** – ISO language code for OCR (e.g., `EN`, `PL`).  
- **ocr_region** – `[x, y, width, height]` of the screen region the OCR reads.  
- **smart_fallback** – Enables fallback detection when the OCR result is ambiguous.  
- **time_in_area** – If `true`, the bot tracks how long you remain in each area.  
- **dynamic_large_image** – If `true`, changes the large image based on the current main area.  
- **verbose_logging** – Enables detailed console logging for debugging.

---

## Supported Languages
- EN - English  
- FI - Finnish  
- FR - French  
- DE - German  
- JP - Japanese  
- NO - Norwegian  
- IT - Italian  
- PL - Polish  
- ES - Spanish  
- SV - Swedish  
- CS - Czech  
- PT - Portuguese  
- DA - Danish  
- NL - Dutch  
- RU - Russian

---

## Notes
- Focusing on the terminal is recomended before using hotkeys but is not required.  
- OCR relies on your screen resolution and map location; use **5** to redefine the OCR if needed.
- When screenshotting an OCR region, make sure to **ONLY** include the sub region.
- Only necessary tessdata files for selected languages are included to reduce size. 
- You can also compile your own version of the bot using a custom Tesseract-OCR folder if desired.
- Make sure config.json and Language/ folder are in the same directory as the executable
- If running from source, also make sure the `Tesseract-OCR` folder is in the same directory

---

## License

This project bundles **Tesseract OCR**, which is licensed under **Apache License 2.0**.  
The original `LICENSE` file for Tesseract is included in the `Tesseract-OCR/doc/` folder.

The remainder of this project is also licensed under **Apache License 2.0**

---

## Community Links

- [Join the TCU Discord Server!](https://discord.gg/tcu)  
- [Check the official TCU YouTube Channel!](https://youtube.com/@whammy4)
